# IR-Labelmask-software

The research result has been applied for a national invention patent(Application (Patent) No.: CN2023109118.3), and the relevant academic papers have been submitted to the IEEE-TGRS journal, which is currently under review.

Abstract—The infrared (IR) small targets often lack texture and color information, and have blurry boundaries, making pixel-level mask annotation labor-intensive and challenging to achieve accuracy. To address these issues, this paper proposes an adaptive IR small target mask recovery method based on multi-scale chain growth clustering and single-point supervision. This method significantly reduces labor costs while ensuring mask accuracy. First, a user-friendly interactive point label generation method is developed to obtain the single point label's coordinate information. Next, the multi-scale chain growth filtering algorithm is enhanced to procure the candidate target saliency maps. A Euclidean attenuation coefficient matrix, centered on the single point label’s coordinates, is then constructed to further emphasize the real target and reduce background clutter interference. The candidate target saliency map is subsequently 2-classified using the k-means clustering algorithm. Finally, the mask map of IR small targets is recovered through an improved eight-neighborhood clustering algorithm. Through ablation experiments, optimal configuration and setting guidelines for the two hyperparameters in this study are derived. Both qualitative and quantitative experiments further illustrate this method has an efficient and accurate IR small target mask recovery capability. It can adaptively recover different numbers, scales, shapes, and intensities of small or point targets in complex backgrounds, while significantly reducing labor costs. Furthermore, IR-Labelmask, an IR small target mask labeling software based on this study's design, was publicly released on kourenke/IR-Labelmask-software (github.com).
